README.md, before:

# DABOM
Dam Adult Branch Occupancy Model

`DABOM` is an R package for estimating abundance of anadromous fishes using fish tagged at a primary sampling facility (e.g., dam) and later interrogated in upstream tributaries.

## Getting Started

`STADEM` requires several packages that are available through the `tidyverse` package. You can install all the necessary packages by using:

```{r}
install.packages("tidyverse", "rjags", "jagsUI")
```

To install `DABOM` you can use Hadley Wickham's `devtools` package. To install and load the `devtools` package use:
```
install.packages("devtools")
library(devtools)
```
NOTE: To use `devtools`, you may also have to download and install Rtools (although you shouldn't). The latest version on Rtools can be found at
https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/

Once `devtools` is successfully installed, use the following to install DABOM:
```
devtools::install_github("KevinSee/DABOM")
```

DABOM requires the JAGS software (**J**ust **A**nother **G**ibbs **S**ampler). This can be downloaded here:

https://sourceforge.net/projects/mcmc-jags/files/

Please download version >= 4.0.0

# Contributions

If you are interested in making contributions to DABOM, consider getting a GitHub account, fork this repository, clone to a local directory, modify, and send me a pull request. I can then review any changes and merge.

Commit message:

Updated README file with better description of what DABOM does.

README.md, after:

# DABOM
Dam Adult Branch Occupancy Model

`DABOM` is an R package for estimating abundance of anadromous fishes using fish tagged at a primary sampling facility (e.g., dam) and later detected in upstream tributaries. It incorporates the branching structure of a stream network, and simultaneously estiamtes imprefect detection probabilities at all detection locations and movement probabilities past detection locations. The movement probabilities, when multiplied correctly and combined with an estimate of total abundance at the tagging site, can be used to estimate abundance at a variety of spatial scales. 

## Getting Started

`DABOM` requires several packages that are available through the `tidyverse` package. You can install all the necessary packages by using:

```{r}
install.packages("tidyverse", "rjags", "jagsUI")
```

To install `DABOM` you can use Hadley Wickham's `devtools` package. To install and load the `devtools` package use:
```
install.packages("devtools")
library(devtools)
```
NOTE: To use `devtools`, you may also have to download and install Rtools (although it may already be installed). The latest version on Rtools can be found at
https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/

Once `devtools` is successfully installed, use the following to install DABOM:
```
devtools::install_github("KevinSee/DABOM")
```

DABOM requires the JAGS software (**J**ust **A**nother **G**ibbs **S**ampler). This can be downloaded here:

https://sourceforge.net/projects/mcmc-jags/files/

Please download version >= 4.0.0

## Current State

Currently, DABOM has been developed for three specific scenarios, involving tagging at Lower Granite Dam, Priest Rapids Dam and Tumwater Dam. A more flexible approach to building DABOM models for a generic location is in the works. 

## Contributions

If you are interested in making contributions to DABOM, consider getting a GitHub account, fork this repository, clone to a local directory, modify, and send me a pull request. I can then review any changes and merge.
